---
layout: post
title: Api
---

This week at [Founders and Coders](http://foundersandcoders.org) we made our first, tentative API queries and tried to do something useful with them. Our brief was to build a responsive news reader (using theguardian.com's api), and I thought this would be a good opportunity to immerse myself in the pure responsive goodness of bootstrap.   

Such is the ease of adding buttons, tabs, dropdowns, and accordions with bootstrap that I got hooked on building something feature rich and usable and came up with [this](http://codependentfc.github.io/week2/responsive) by the end of the week.  

Give it a try! You can read up to date news in a customisable, distraction free environment. If you have god eye-sight, it's great on a mobile...  


My personal lesson for the week came when I first tried to refactor my initial splurge of jQuery into something with functions in it. On page load my http requests were firing without my ever having called the relevant functions. How could this be? Google availed me little, and the bug proved so elusive that I tore down the code and started again. This time it worked, and though perhaps my subconscious had spotted my error and rectified it, I was still unclear as to what was afoot.

After a chat with a colleague who had had a similar issue though, all became clear. Can you guess what it was yet? I, the jQuery noob, with only a burgeoning understanding of the ineffable nature of the callback function, had passed my http request functions **directly** to the relevant click handlers, passing them *as* the callback rather than **in** the callback. This is bad.

```javascript
// Do not do this..
$('#button').click(httpGet());

// Please, do this.
$('#button').click(function() {
	httpGet());
});
```
Well, I learned a valuable lesson about not understanding what your library is really doing, and I'm sure I won't be making this particular mistake again after spending this coming week immersed in the callback ocean of Node.